The focus of the article “Fine grain performance evaluation of e-commerce sites” is on the fundamental aspects of creating an e-commerce site and how to evaluate the server, code and databases used to implement e-commerce model. These technologies include front-end development, middle layer development, and back-end development. The front end is how clients will interact with the rest of your software. It serves static content from the file system, and creates an interface towards the business logic. Popular software for the front-end layer is the Apache Web server, MS Internet Information Services, Sun Java System Web Server, and Zeus. Next is the application server layer which handling all the business logic and computations for the information which will be used to construct HTTP documents. The middle layer, which uses CGI, ASP, JSP, PHP, EJB, Java Servlet. The back-end layer typically consists of a database server and storage critical information pertaining to the basis for generating dynamic content within the commerce system itself. The most e-commerce systems are Oracle, IBM DB2, MS SQL Server on the proprietary side, and MySQL and PostgreSQL that are to be used for developing and maintaining the servers. Test environment may be created, to simulate or test individual or a multitude of environments and viable based on said test data on performance studies such as, traffic, product placement, and user and server connection variables. These test allow companies to test other configurations, sometimes even different infrastructures, without leading to down time of the ones currently in place. Based on these results, an individual or industry can then perform a Fine Grain Performance Evaluation, through this we can then see the impact of wide area network effects and the cumulative distribution of connectivity issues and response times within the network. These evaluations help indicate which technology or configurations are most suitable for their particular needs.